
-----------------------------
Azure compute and networking services
-----------------------------------------

Upon completion of this module, you'll be able to:

	Compare compute types, including container instances, virtual machines, and functions

	Describe virtual machine (VM) options, including VMs, Virtual Machine Scale Sets, availability sets, Azure Virtual Desktop

	Describe resources required for virtual machines

	Describe application hosting options, including Azure Web Apps, containers, and virtual machines

	Describe virtual networking, including the purpose of Azure Virtual Networks, Azure virtual subnets, peering, Azure DNS, VPN Gateway, and ExpressRoute

	Define public and private endpoints



Describe Azure virtual machines
-----------------------------------------

	What VMs Offer: Azure VMs provide a virtualized server in the cloud.
	They’re ideal when you need full control over the OS, to run custom software, or configure unique hosting setups. 
	Azure VMs give you the benefits of virtualization without buying or managing physical hardware.

	Using VMs: 
	VMs can be used individually or as groups for different purposes:

	Single VMs: 
	Useful for testing, development, or lightweight tasks.

	Scale Sets: 
	Automatically adjust the number of VMs based on demand. Scale sets are ideal for large-scale services as Azure manages load balancing and scaling.

	Availability Sets: 
	Improve resilience by grouping VMs across different power and network sources. These sets protect VMs from outages in single fault domains or during updates.

	Common Uses:
	Testing and development environments.
	Running applications with variable demand, so you only pay for what you use.
	Extending on-premises data centers into the cloud, providing backup capabilities.
	Disaster recovery as a flexible, cost-effective alternative to traditional setups.

	Resources for Each VM: 
	When creating a VM, you select resources like:

	Size (processor cores, memory).
	Storage (HDD, SSD).
	Networking (IP addresses, virtual networks).



Describe Azure virtual desktop
-------------------------------------
	Another type of virtual machine is the Azure Virtual Desktop.
	A cloud-based virtual desktop solution that offers secure remote access to a Windows environment from any device, ideal for remote work.

	Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD)
	Azure Virtual Desktop is a cloud service for virtual Windows desktops, accessible from any device. 
	It provides secure, managed access with multifactor authentication and role-based controls.

	AVD supports multiple users on one VM, keeping data and applications in the cloud for better security and efficiency.
	
	
Describe Azure containers	
-------------------------------------
	
	Containers offer a lightweight, flexible alternative to virtual machines, 
	allowing multiple instances of applications on one host without managing an operating system per container. 
	They are ideal for rapid scaling and dynamic workloads.
		
	Runs containerized applications with options like AKS for large-scale orchestration or ACI for quick, serverless deployments.

	Types of Azure Containers:

	Azure Container Instances (ACI): 
	Quick, serverless way to run containers without managing VMs; ideal for simple, single-container tasks.

	Azure Container Apps: 
	PaaS for multi-container apps, adding load balancing and scaling.

	Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS): 
	Orchestrates and manages large groups of containers, handling complex, multi-container applications efficiently.

	Use Cases
	Containers often support a microservices approach, where components like frontend, backend, and storage each run in separate containers. 
	This enables independent scaling and updates, improving resource efficiency.
		
	*VM virtualize a hardware vs Containers virtualize OS

	
Describe Azure functions
-------------------------------------
	Azure Functions is a serverless, event-driven compute service that runs code only in response to triggers, eliminating the need to manage VMs or containers. 
	Resources are allocated automatically when triggered and deallocated once the function completes, saving costs by charging only for actual usage.

	Benefits
	----------
	Automatic Scaling: 
	Scales based on demand, handling variable loads efficiently.
	
	Stateless and Stateful Options: 
	Default is stateless, but Durable Functions provide state tracking for workflows.
	
	Flexibility: 
	While default is serverless, functions can run in managed environments, supporting features like virtual networks and isolation.
	
	
Describe application hosting options
-------------------------------------

	Azure offers App Service, AKS, Functions, and Static Web Apps to host a variety of applications based on your needs and scale requirements.
	
	Virtual Machines (VMs): 
	Provides maximum control over the hosting environment, allowing full customization. 
	Suitable for those familiar with traditional server management.

	Containers: 
	Enables isolated and manageable hosting for different application parts, offering flexibility and efficiency.

	Azure App Service: 
	A PaaS hosting solution for web apps, APIs, background jobs, and mobile back-ends, 
	supporting multiple programming languages and automated deployment from GitHub or Azure DevOps. 
	It provides automatic scaling, high availability, and supports both Windows and Linux.

		Types of App Services in Azure App Service:

		Web Apps: 
		Hosting for web applications in languages like ASP.NET, Java, Node.js, and Python.
		
		API Apps: 
		Create and publish RESTful APIs with full support for Swagger, enabling easy consumption from clients.
		
		WebJobs: 
		Run background tasks in various languages, which can be triggered or scheduled.
		
		Mobile Apps: 
		Back-end services for mobile apps, supporting data storage, authentication, and push notifications.
		
		App Service handles most of the infrastructure decisions you deal with in hosting web-accessible apps:

		Deployment and management are integrated into the platform.
		Endpoints can be secured.
		Sites can be scaled quickly to handle high traffic loads.
		The built-in load balancing and traffic manager provide high availability.
	
	
Describe Azure virtual networking	
-------------------------------------

	Azure virtual networks and subnets allow resources like VMs, web apps, and databases to communicate within Azure, 
	with the internet, and with on-premises networks. Think of it as an extension of your local network.

	Key Features of Azure Virtual Networking

	Isolation & Segmentation: 
	Define private IP address spaces and divide them into subnets to isolate resources.

	Public & Private Endpoints: 
	Public endpoints use a global IP, while private endpoints have internal IPs for secure connections.

	Internet Communication: 
	Enable internet access by assigning public IPs or using load balancers.

	Internal Communication: 
	Connect Azure resources securely within a network or across service endpoints.

	On-Premises Connectivity:
	Point-to-Site VPN: Connect individual computers to Azure.
	Site-to-Site VPN: Connect your on-premises VPN to Azure VPN.
	ExpressRoute: Provides private, high-bandwidth connectivity.
	
	Traffic Routing:
	Route Tables: Customize traffic rules.
	Border Gateway Protocol (BGP): Integrates with Azure VPN for advanced routing.
	
	Traffic Filtering:
	Network Security Groups: Control inbound/outbound traffic.
	Network Virtual Appliances: Deploy specialized VMs for firewalling or WAN optimization.
	
	Network Connections:
	Virtual Network Peering: Connects virtual networks privately via Microsoft’s network.
	User-Defined Routes: Customize routing between subnets or virtual networks for controlled traffic flow.
	
	
Describe Azure virtual private networks
------------------------------------------
	A virtual private network (VPN) creates an encrypted tunnel over the internet to securely connect private networks. 
	VPNs protect data in transit, preventing unauthorized access.
	
	An Azure VPN Gateway connects on-premises networks and Azure resources:
		Site-to-Site: Connects on-premises networks to Azure virtual networks.
		Point-to-Site: Connects individual devices to Azure virtual networks.
		VNet-to-VNet: Connects Azure virtual networks to each other.
		Each virtual network can have one VPN gateway, which can connect to multiple locations, including other VNets and on-premises networks.

	VPN Gateway Types:
		Policy-based: Uses IP addresses to specify which traffic to encrypt.
		Route-based: Uses IP routing, making it more flexible for complex setups.
	
	High Availability Options:
	If you’re configuring a VPN to keep your information safe, you also want to be sure that it’s a highly available and fault tolerant VPN configuration. 

		Active/Standby: Two instances are deployed; the standby takes over if the active instance fails.
		Active/Active: Both instances are active, each with a unique IP. This setup improves reliability and allows more connections.
		ExpressRoute Failover: A VPN gateway can back up ExpressRoute connections if needed.
		Zone-Redundant Gateways: In supported regions, VPN gateways can be deployed across availability zones for higher resilience against failures.
	
	
	
Describe Azure ExpressRoute	
------------------------------------------
	Azure ExpressRoute lets you extend your on-premises networks into the Microsoft cloud over a private connection, 
	with the help of a connectivity provider. This connection is called an ExpressRoute Circuit.
	This setup enhances reliability, security, and speed.
	
	Benefits of ExpressRoute:
	
		Direct Access to Microsoft Cloud: 
		Connects directly to Microsoft services, like Azure and Microsoft 365, across all regions.
		
		Global Connectivity: 
		Allows multiple locations (offices or datacenters) to connect securely via ExpressRoute Global Reach.
		
		Dynamic Routing: 
		Uses BGP for flexible, automatic routing between your network and Microsoft’s.
		
		Built-In Redundancy: 
		Backup devices ensure high availability.
	
	ExpressRoute connectivity models:
	
		Colocation at a Cloud Exchange: 
		For facilities close to a cloud exchange, use a virtual cross-connect to Microsoft.
		
		Point-to-Point Connection: 
		Direct link between your location and Microsoft’s cloud.
		
		Any-to-Any (IP VPN): 
		Extends your existing wide area network (WAN) to include Azure.
		
		Direct from ExpressRoute Sites: 
		Connect at Microsoft’s global peering locations for high-speed data transfer.
		
	Security: 
		With ExpressRoute, your data doesn't travel over the public internet, reducing the risks associated with internet communications. 
		ExpressRoute is a private connection from your on-premises infrastructure to your Azure infrastructure.




Describe Azure DNS
------------------------------------------

	Azure DNS is a service for hosting DNS domains and providing fast, reliable name resolution using Microsoft’s global Azure infrastructure. 
	It allows you to manage DNS records alongside your other Azure resources.

	Benefits of Azure DNS:
	
	Reliability and Performance: 
		Hosted on Azure’s global network of DNS servers, providing high availability. 
		Using anycast networking, it directs DNS queries to the closest server for faster responses.

	Security: 
	Azure DNS is based on Azure Resource Manager, which provides:
		Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) to manage who can access specific actions.
		Activity Logs to track user actions for troubleshooting.
		Resource Locking to prevent accidental deletion of critical resources.
	
	Ease of Use: 
	Integrated with Azure, allowing DNS management in the Azure portal and via PowerShell, Azure CLI, REST API, and SDKs.

	Custom Virtual Networks: 
	Supports private DNS domains, enabling custom domain names within private networks.

	Alias Records: 
	Alias records link to Azure resources (like IPs, Traffic Manager, or CDN) and automatically update if the linked IP changes.

	Note: Azure DNS doesn’t sell domain names; you need to purchase domains through a third-party registrar or Azure App Service domains, then host them in Azure DNS for record management.







Create VM 
From Cloud Shell, run the following az vm create command to create a Linux VM
az vm create --resource-group "learn-870316b3-424d-4f3b-a7c8-2ab594d46bee" --name my-vm --public-ip-sku Standard --image Ubuntu2204 --admin-username azureuser --generate-ssh-keys

Run the following az vm extension set command to configure Nginx on your VM:
az vm extension set --resource-group "learn-870316b3-424d-4f3b-a7c8-2ab594d46bee" --vm-name my-vm --name customScript --publisher Microsoft.Azure.Extensions --version 2.1 --settings '{"fileUris":["https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MicrosoftDocs/mslearn-welcome-to-azure/master/configure-nginx.sh"]}' --protected-settings '{"commandToExecute": "./configure-nginx.sh"}'




	