
-----------------------------
 Describe monitoring tools in Azure
--------------------------------------

After completing this module, you’ll be able to:

	Describe the purpose of Azure Advisor.
	Describe Azure Service Health.
	Describe Azure Monitor, including Azure Log Analytics, Azure Monitor Alerts, and Application Insights
	

	
Describe the purpose of Azure Advisor
--------------------------------------------------
Azure Advisor evaluates your Azure resources and makes recommendations to help improve reliability, 
security, and performance, achieve operational excellence, and reduce costs.

The recommendations are divided into five categories:

	Reliability is used to ensure and improve the continuity of your business-critical applications.
	Security is used to detect threats and vulnerabilities that might lead to security breaches.
	Performance is used to improve the speed of your applications.
	Operational Excellence is used to help you achieve process and workflow efficiency, resource manageability, and deployment best practices.
	Cost is used to optimize and reduce your overall Azure spending.



Describe Azure Service Health
--------------------------------------------------
Azure Service Health helps you keep track of Azure resource, both your specifically deployed resources and the overall status of Azure. 
Azure service health does this by combining three different Azure services:

Azure Status is a broad picture of the status of Azure globally. 
Service Health provides a narrower view of Azure services and regions.
Resource Health is a tailored view of your actual Azure resources.

By using Azure status, Service health, and Resource Health, Azure Service Health gives you a complete view of your Azure environment-all 
the way from the global status of Azure services and regions down to specific resources.



Describe Azure Monitor
--------------------------------------------------
Azure Monitor is a platform for collecting data on your resources, analyzing that data, visualizing the information, and even acting on the results.

	Azure Log Analytics
	Azure Log Analytics is the tool in the Azure portal where you’ll write and run log queries on the data gathered by Azure Monitor. 
	Log Analytics is a robust tool that supports both simple, complex queries, and data analysis.

	Azure Monitor Alerts
	Azure Monitor Alerts are an automated way to stay informed when Azure Monitor detects a threshold being crossed. 
	Alerts can be set up to monitor the logs and trigger on certain log events, or they can be set to monitor metrics and trigger when certain metrics are crossed.

	Application Insights
	Application Insights is capable of monitoring applications that are running in Azure, on-premises, or in a different cloud environment.
	There are two ways to configure Application Insights to help monitor your application. You can either install an SDK in your application, or you can use the Application Insights agent.
	
	You can use it to monitor a broad array of information, such as:

		Request rates, response times, and failure rates
		Dependency rates, response times, and failure rates, to show whether external services are slowing down performance
		Page views and load performance reported by users' browsers
		AJAX calls from web pages, including rates, response times, and failure rates
		User and session counts
		Performance counters from Windows or Linux server machines, such as CPU, memory, and network usage
